Germany's Vice Chancellor Robert haboc
has condemned the attacks by the Hamas
terrorist group and expressed his
country's steadfast support for Israel
he said Israel has every right to defend
itself here's what he had to
say
this
for
build
bu by
for
this
babies
is
[Music]
for
and for more on this and what I think
were really heartfelt words from Robert
H I'm joined in our studio by DW
correspondent Hance Brandt uh what kind
of reactions have there been to this
statement so far it's been very positive
in in German political circles the
reaction there have even been very
positive reactions from opposition
politicians that's an unusual thing for
a green politician at the moment because
the greens are being very harshly
attacked by politically on all sorts of
issues by the opposition at the moment
so it's been remarkable the the positive
uh reactions to this um I think what has
to say is that we are talking here about
in some sense a very German discussion
the last two words that uh harck uses
there KN VA never again that's kind of
the headline under which German
discussions of Nazi history of Germany's
Nazi history um have been made since the
end of the war never again should
something like this happen on German
soil and that's the reason why uh this
kind of intensity is being put into this
discussion here here in Germany that
intensity we feel we get from Robert Hab
who is a very uh good public speaker and
comes across as very empathetic and does
his statement and the other statements
that have been made in this regard um
make it more difficult to criticize the
Israeli armed forces and what they're
doing in Gaza now because there's debate
around that too absolutely it's a very
very fine line that the German
government especially the greens are
trading here I think it doesn't make uh
criticism
impossible and there have in the past
been statements that are critical of the
Israeli government at the moment there
is a very strong focus on Israel's right
to defend itself is Israel's right to
exists and the German um they call it in
the interest of German states the
national interest as reasons of state
that Israel can exist which is um kind
of explained in terms of German history
U but there has been criticism and even
in recent days green politicians and the
German government have said for instance
that uh the um civilians in Gaza should
be uh safe that their safety should be
respected even by uh in the course of
the Israeli counter offensive um so
there is some
um sensitive one might say some careful
criticism involved but the basis of it
of German reaction at the moment is
support for Israel now H if you don't
mind to show our viewers some pictures
and video that have been shot in the
past uh couple of days and get you to
react to them uh police have reported a
dozen such graffitis in the past 24
hours stars of David being painted on
buildings other graffiti there you have
it um evoking what what is the purpose
of this and why why are the police
getting involved well um here in Germany
one things immediately of the 30s of
Nazi rule in the 30s at that time The
Naz these marked buildings and shops H
run by Jews with the Star of David um so
there is this sense that this could be
anti-semitic graffiti that uh and that
is exactly how the police is in fact
treating it as a sign of
anti-Semitism um I think one has to say
there is a very intense debate going on
in Germany at the moment there are a lot
of um
Palestinian sympathizers people with a
Palestinian background uh
people with a migrant background from
the Middle East and so on in Germany
there have been Pro Palestinian
demonstrations on German streets and uh
the police are treating these as
anti-semitic uh graffiti obviously if
one were to for instance um uh use
graffiti such as um
uh a um prop Palestinian or Hamas
graffiti that would be prohibited in
itself whereas the Star of David is not
prohibited in itself okay so police are
on the lookout and and the political
class seems to be standing as steadfast
behind Israel and and staying in that
position it has since the beginning
hence brand thanks for that
Insight the Israeli military says it has
killed the Hamas commander who led one
of the terror attacks on Border villages
in Israel last week it has released a
video of what it says is an air strike
on a building in the south of Gaza City
that it says killed Hamas Commander
belal al-adra
the Army said he was responsible for the
kibuts N Massacre where residents were
killed in their homes it also said two
other Hamas commanders were killed in
recent air strikes on Gaza Hamas has not
confirmed their
deaths